hey this is presto Locker Alice and Bob
are on a game show
each is secretly told a whole positive
number they are told the two numbers are
consecutive
but neither knows the other person's
number for example if Alice is told 20
she does not know if Bob was told 19 or
21 and a Bob is told 21 he does not know
if Alice was told 20 or 22 the point of
the game is to guess the other person's
number but there are rules to the game
Alice and Bob cannot communicate with
each other and they are not allowed to
plan a strategy either the two are in a
room or a clock rings every minute after
the clock rings either player can call
out a guess of the other players number
or they can both stay silent here's a
clock that rings every minute on the
minute the game continues until Alice or
Bob makes a guess after the first guess
is made the game ends Alice and Bob win
1 million dollars if the guess is
correct and they lose and get nothing if
the guess is incorrect
how can Ellis and Bob best play this
game to win each knows the other is
perfect at logical reasoning can you
figure it out give this problem a try
and when you're ready keep watching the
video for the solution at first it seems
like Alice and Bob can do no better than
random chance if alice is told 20 for
instance there is no way to know if bob
has 19 or 21
but since alice can limit Bob's number
to two possibilities she can at least
have a 50% chance of guessing correctly
Bob has the same issue if he's told the
number n then he cannot be sure if alice
was told n minus 1 or n plus 1 if Bob
guesses between the two possibilities
that he
also has a 50% chance of guessing
correctly acting individually Alice and
Bob have a 50% chance of guessing the
other person's number and winning the
game remarkably they can do much better
there is a method they can win 100% of
the time if they use logic perfectly one
key detail is the two art given positive
consecutive numbers when Alice gets a
number n she usually has to consider if
Bob has n minus 1 or n plus 1 but
suppose Alice gets one Bob could have 0
or 2 but 0 is not a positive number so
Bob must have to search your feelings
Alice you know it to be to a player that
gets one well know the other person has
to and since the player is sure the
player will guess on the very first ring
of the clock they will win 1 million
dollars for sure this was from Alice's
perspective but of course if Bob got one
he would also figure out that Alice has
2 on the first ring of the clock but
what about larger numbers we could
continue the logic suppose Alice gets 2
and the first ring of the clock passes
Bob could have 1 or 3 but if Bob had one
he would have guessed on the first ring
of the clock so Bob does not guess after
one ring then Bob must have 3 Alice
realizes this after the first ring and
she will guess on the second ring of the
clock in this way Alice and Bob will win
1 million dollars for sure the logic
would be similar if Bob got 2 and the
first ring of the clock passes he would
know that Alice had 3 so now what about
larger numbers we could continue the
logic inductively suppose Alice gets n
and the clock rings
n minus one times with no guests from
Bob if Bob had n minus one he would have
guessed on the N minus one ring of the
clock so Bob did not guess then Bob must
have had the larger number n plus one
Alice therefore guesses that Bob has n
plus one after the clock rings exactly n
times they will win the game for sure
and get 1 million dollars Bob would have
costs reason similarly so in summary
Alice and Bob can always win the game
when they're given two numbers N and n
plus one the person who gets the smaller
number n will always guess after the
clock rings exactly n times that the
other player has n plus 1 this will be
correct and they will always win the
game did you figure it out thanks for
watching this video please subscribe to
my channel I make videos on math the
game theory you can catch me on my blog
mind your decisions that you can follow
on Facebook Google+ and patreon you can
catch you on social media at pressure
Walker and if you liked this video
please check out my books there are
links in the video description